# CMSC471 Final Project
#### By Aaron Lewis, Saurav Patel, Justin Zhai, Mia Cohen, Ezra Cohen
## Inspiration
When all of us met, one thing we agreed on is the increasing awareness of the wealth divide continuing to grow in American society. With the recent pandemic in 2020, a range of interest rates since that period and the emerging growth and integration of AI in our lives today, we all decided to focus on how these factors impact the richest people in the world: Billionaires. The key observation that we found was that these billionaires actually benefitted from the factors influencing society today while the average american's wealth stayed the same or even decreased in terms of quality. How can that be when the US stock market rose about 14.25% year over year? It turns out that this is not the first time we have seen this type of trend with a country's economic behavior and billionaire wealth accumulation-- we have seen it before in the Gilded Age. After doing some initial research, we found out that specifically tech billionaires (and billionaires that invested into the technology sector) have seen monumental returns on their investments making them incredibly wealthy. We decided to focus our study to see if we can find correlations between today's modern society vs. the gilded age seen about 1 and a half centuries ago. 
## Work Division
**Saurav and Aaron:** responsible for collecting data about current tech companies and comparing them to other sectors that make up the US GDP. Data collection included finding market caps, calculating percent change for individual companies and sectors, and other metrics that describe a company's financial profile and success. Visualizations based on the data collected were created in D3 and Observable.\
----- \
**Justin and Ezra:** After idenfifying the existence of large scale tech sector growth and billionaires accumulating wealth, the next step Justin and Ezra accomplished is comparing elements of society from both the contemporary age vs. the Gilded Age. This includes tax paid by the middle class and bilionaires, the wealth distribution based on percentiles of wealth, and influence over the masses. Because this data can be ambiguous and hard to interpret, the goal with this data was again to prove the existance of growth and presence of technology billionaires within the United States. The next thing that we decided to do from this point is to consult with an economist from the University of Maryland.\
----- \
**Mia:** Mia took our data and consulted our findings with an economist that she knew. To quickly summarize, the economist had one main point: While the wealth accumulation seen by the richest in the United States is comparable to the wealth accumulated by those 'billionaires' in the Gilded Age, the average quality of life in the contemporary world is far better than the middle class quality of life in the Gilded Age and is not comprable. We see many 'non' wage benefits like improved security, health and retirement benefits and more that contribute to the average American in a positive light.\
Becuase Mia got direct feedback from the economist and has understanding of the relevant history, she was in charge of the writing, organizing our references, and ensuring our project is cohesive and clearly tells our narrative. She also created a visualization based on some of the economic concepts.\
----- \
**Everyone:** From this point on, all of us polished each other's visualizations and tweaked them to tell our final narrative-- tech billionaires' massive wealth accumulation is comparable to the gilded age (we are NOT comparing the life of average american). We all looked into what this means and how this wealth accumulation can affect society and how it is seen today.
## Integration Using Github and Github Pages
We communicated amongst ourselves using iMessage, used Google Drive to compile resources and datasets, and finally for the most part of the project, we worked out of this Github repository to create our visualizations and format our final website. This website is deployed using a github.io website.
## Visualization Creation
All of our visualizations are code-based coming from one of two sources: The D3 library in javascript or the Observable platform. 
## Overall Conclusion/Findings:
We should care about this topic becuase while we do have (on average) a better quality of life in the last century than ever before, the growing wealth of tech billionaires also comes with an increased influence in todays political and private sector scene. Having the money to invest in politicians and smaller companies influences these entities to behave and act in a certain way that benefits these tech billionaires rather than society as a whole. Whether this happens though law policies or internal board decisions at corporations, these decisions trickle down and effect all of us whom are governed within these entities. 
